In “The Iliad”, Homer weaves a clear dichotomy between glory obtained from material possessions and glory obtained from heroic deeds throughout the course of the epic. The juxtaposition of these two concepts is visible both when comparing characters such as Achilles and Agamemnon, or Paris and Hector, as well as in analyzing Achilles’ own conflicting thoughts. Homer shows a shift in the power dynamic of these contrasting ideas, with material glory being attributed with more power at first, and heroic glory receiving a more positive representation as this thread of the epic develops.
	The first conflict between heroic glory and material glory is the confrontation between Agamemnon and Achilles, when Agamemnon takes Achilles’ trophy woman in order to establish his dominance as king (Book 1). Agamemnon represents the material side, as his respect and glory is derived from his possession of Zeus’ staff, the size of his armies, and the amount of treasures he collects. He commandeers a great amount of respect from the Achaean troops, as none dare stop him despite the injustice of his actions. Achilles, on the other hand, is the perfect representation of glory through heroic deeds. He is perhaps even more respected than Agamemnon, but earns that respect entirely through his prowess in battle. Widely regarded as the best fighter on the planet, Achilles is considered so pivotal that merely his choice to fight or not is enough to tip the scales of the war towards either side. This conflict helps introduce the idea that material glory holds more power than heroic glory, as Achilles is forced to give up his trophy and submit to the humiliation his king imposes on him. 
However, as this thread develops in the course of the epic, the power dynamic between the two characters shifts. Agamemnon realizes he is unable to defeat the Trojans without Achilles and thus offers him troves of treasures to regain his support (Book 9). Here, Homer argues that material glory may appear to be superior and more appealing on the surface, but real power resides with those that have heroic glory. The way the two characters are portrayed in the epic help promote this view. Agamemnon, despite being the Greek king in a Greek epic, is very negatively portrayed, while Achilles is the focal hero of the poem.
Perhaps the most apt example for the aforementioned dichotomy are the two brothers, Paris and Hector. Paris is the perfect mold of glory through material gains, as he is regarded as the most beautiful man on the planet. Hector, on the other hand, is the beloved protector of the city. He is never said to be particularly attractive, or the best fighter, but is easily the most positively represented character in the Iliad, due to his heroic deeds. Homer argues that Hector does not need to be a king with great treasures or the greatest fighter to gain renown. Instead, he has acquired an immense amount of respect by always defending Troy in its moments of need, despite having a family to take care of. Hector sees it as his duty and fate, and through that gains not only the love and admiration of his people, but also respect from his enemies and even from the almighty Olympian gods. The epic even ends with Hector’s funeral ceremony (Book 24), despite the intended center of the poem being Achilles and Troy. As such, Homer shows that heroic glory is far more superior than glory obtained through material possessions. Paris is a hated man, hated by his family, by his people, even by his wife, while Hector is beloved by all those around him.
The relationship between heroic and material glory is also seen in Achilles’ own internal strife. He knows he has two options: To join the fight and gain incredible glory, but perish and never return home; or, to return home and live a long life, but miss out on becoming legendary in the eyes of the Greeks. The fact that he chooses to fight (Book 18) once again reveals Homer’s opinion in this debate. In all three circumstances explored in this paper, heroic glory came out on top, whether it be between characters or in Achilles’ own decision making. Homer indicates that even when presented with innumerable treasures, women, and a long happy life, a short but heroic life is far greater.
The question still remains, however, as to why Homer would argue this position, and an answer can perhaps be found by applying Hesiod’s spectrum of order and chaos. If emphasis in the Iliad had been placed on material glory as opposed to heroic glory, there would not have been much to write about. An epic about Achilles deciding war was not worth his effort and instead electing to spend his time living a peaceful life would not be an epic, at all. The fact that multiple characters in the Iliad seek this heroic glory, not just Achilles, is what makes it an epic story. In order to obtain heroic glory, there needs to be some sort of conflict — in this case, war, — which consequently creates a tale that can be written down and told. That is what keeps history in constant motion, as opposed to how nothing of circumstance would happen if every character in the Iliad chose to have a quiet, peaceful life. It is worth nothing however that this does not mean Homer is attempting to prevent society from a fully peaceful state, in fact it’s likely Homer could not even imagine a society like that. He is instead arguing that some degree of violence is necessary and will always be present to keep history moving.
In conclusion, throughout the course of the Iliad Homer weaves a dichotomy between glory obtained from material possessions and glory obtained from heroic deeds. This balance undergoes a shift in its power dynamic as the thread develops, and ultimately culminates into Homer positioning heroic glory above material glory. This also links very well into Hesiod’s ideas of chaos and order, as humans chasing heroism create some level of chaos that moves the world away from total order and puts history into motion.
